# FGT_phylogenomics: Global phylogenetic structure of the female genital tract microbiome

This repository is associated with a paper in preperation for submission (soon to be bioRxiv'd):

**Hayward MR**, Bloom SM, France MT, Xu J, Yuan E, Mafunda NA, Hassain FA, Demby SM, Ghebremichael MS, Rice JK, Urbach JM, Adhikari U, Elsherbini JA, Xulu N, Gumbi T, Ceasar X, Dong M, Dong k, Ismail N, Ndung’u, Relman DA, Marrazzo JM, Ravel J, Mitchell CM, Huttenhower C, Kwon DS. Global phylogenetic structure of the female genital tract microbiome

## Abstract
The female genital tract microbiome impacts several important health outcomes, including preterm birth1, cervical dysplasia2, and susceptibility to sexually transmitted infections, such as HIV3. However, our genetic and molecular understanding of microbes colonising the genital tract remains incomplete, especially in global communities where the burden of adverse reproductive outcomes is greatest. To address this lack of representation, we perform mass culturing and metagenomic sequencing. We combine these sequences with public genomes and perform the first comprehensive phylogenetic analysis of bacteria from the female genital tract, representing 605 species-level clades, 112 of which are first defined here. We identify new strain associations with geographical regions which may have implications for prospective intervention strategies. Further, our resolved taxonomy highlights previously obscured associations between the female genital tract microbiome and genital inflammation. This work proves a valuable resource for studying global women’s health.
